---
layout: post
title:  "The Guide to Everything"
date:   2022-04-17 +0530
categories: jekyll update
---

Welcome to the whole documentation of everything I know about computers and systems.

# Index:

[1: Networking](#networking)

[2: Security in Operating systems](#operating-system-security)

<hr>

# Networking

Networking is a simple yet complex part of the computing experience. It is essentially the connection between computers (phones and tablets included) and servers. The communication between these computers and servers is done through a network. Transmission of data (in packets) is done through a network.

A network consists of many things. First thing is an IP (Internet Protocol) Address that is an address that tells the router on the network which computer is which. Learn how to change your IP Address [here](#change-your-ip). Sometimes people set up routers and firewalls to bind IP Addresses and MAC (Media Access Control) addresses. A MAC address is the address/hexadecimal code that identifies the ID of your NIC (Network Interface Card). Most people don't change MAC IDs or don't know how to. You can learn how to do this [here](#change-your-mac-address).

The Default configuration for routers' gateways are `192.168.1.1`. A gateway is the network node through all traffic travels through to the WWW (World Wide Network) or another IP/MAC on your network. You can change the settings in the network to send data from IP to IP instead of routing it through the gateway too but that is a bit complicated and we will leave it for later.

Each router has a certain amount of devices(IPs) that can connect to it. This is determined by the 1/24 or 0/24 added at the end of the gateway IP also known as netmask. IP calculators are the easier way of determining how many devices are allowed.
For Example: A network with netmask of `/24` will allow up to 254 devices at a time however a network with netmask of `/23` will allow 510 devices at a time.




[Back to Index](#index)

### Change your ip

[Back to Index](#index)

### Change your mac address

[Back to Index](#index)

# Operating System Security

[Back to Index](#index)

